#summary An exploration of the features of SimpleAjax.
#labels Phase-Design
= Features of !SimpleAjax =

== Simplicity ==
!SimpleAjax remains simple by following three principles:

*Don't require code if it's not necessary.* In the world today there are two major sins inherited from the history of !JavaScript: initializing an object by passing it a node ID, and requiring the user to manually load/unload an object. Often times such actions are not even necessary in the first place as the object is already in an environment where it could gather the information for itself and perform its own housekeeping tasks. !SimpleAjax understands this principle and from the start it has been designed to avoid the need for loading/unloading, and where it does need to, it handles everything by itself. This means the developer has less code to write, debug and maintain.

*Small APIs are fast to learn.* One requirement of !SimpleAjax is to be easy to learn and something you could start using in minutes. To meet that requirement, much focus was placed in making the core features work in as few steps as possible and requiring those steps to be easy to pick up and remember. That is why !SimpleAjax only has 1 function call and 4 parameters. We hope that after the first time, it becomes second nature from then on.

*Short syntaxes are fast to read and write.* Taking a page out of jQuery, we realized that short and concise method names coupled with uniform conventions produced code that was quick to read, yet understandable enough to not cause confusion. Also, if a block of code could all be read in 1 sitting, then the user is more likely to be able to grasp it all in their head, than a block of code that causes the user to forget what happened at the start, by the time they reach the bottom.

== Speed ==
!SimpleAjax improves speed by working around bottlenecks:

*Startup and First Availability.* Some tools only become available after the "DOMContentLoaded" event has fired. But on slow networks, a page can be in a state of being partially visible and interactive, yet not fully loaded which means the tool is not available yet. !SimpleAjax improves on that by being available as soon as the tool is downloaded, which allows users to interact with it earlier.

*Initialization Cost.* During initialization, some tools need to make a list of all the nodes on the page that match a certain criteria and then act on them in some way. This operation is particularly costly. !SimpleAjax avoids this by doing lazy initialization.