#summary An explanation of what parameters are accepted in the invocation call.
#labels Phase-Design

= Method Parameters =

To invoke !SimpleAjax, add a `rel` attribute to any hyperlink or form control:

   <a href="desc.php" *rel="get # div1 loading"*>View Description</a>

This syntax consists of:
  * *"rel"*: When an element with a "rel" attribute is activated !SimpleAjax will take over and invoke the alternate AJAX behavior.

  * *[#The_HTTP_Method "get"]*: This must be a valid HTTP method (or variants of it) that will be used to retrieve the resource over the Internet. It can be "get", "post", or "get-nocache".

  * *[#The_#_URL "#"]*: This is a URL indicating the resource to download. Relative URLs are accepted and are relative to the implied resource at the hyperlink or form element.

  * *[#The_div1_ID "div1"]*: This is the ID of an element (on the current page) that will be used to display the server results. It also accepts "null" as a name to indicate that the response should not be displayed.

  * *[#The_loading_ID "loading"]*: This is the ID of an element that will be shown when a server request is being sent and will be hidden when the server response has arrived. Effectively this is an progress indicator.

=== The HTTP Method ===
This is a valid [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP#Request_methods HTTP method] that will be used to retrieve the resource over the Internet. The following methods are supported:

  * GET: Used to indicate that retrieving the resource will not cause side effects. The responses of all GET requests will be cached so that subsequent requests to that URL are fast.

  * GET-NOCACHE: Same as GET except the URL is not cached by !SimpleAjax and the URL is modified each time so that it cannot be cached by any intermediate servers.

  * POST: Submits data to the server with the expectation that side effects may occur such as updates to the servers data.

The only supported HTTP methods are "get, get-nocache, post, put and delete" and are case-insensitive. Any other method will be ignored.

=== The # URL ===
This is a URL to a resource on the Internet. It can be a relative URL, in which it is relative to the implied URL of the element.

Three additionally supported URLs are:
  * An _implied URL_ is just the URL implied by the element. The implied URL of a hyperlink is its `href` URL.

  * A _data URL_ specifies data that is [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data:_URI_scheme inline] in the URL.

  * A _fragment identifier_ identifies data that is readily found on the current page.

==== This table illustrates the different scenarios: ====

|| *Concept* || *Example HTML* || *Resulting data* ||
|| Absolute URL || `<a href="http://msn.com/en/about.html" rel="get http://msn.com/en/about.html div1">` || http_:_//msn.com/en/about.html ||
|| Implied URL || `<a href="http://msn.com/en/about.html" rel="get # div1">` || http_:_//msn.com/en/about.html ||
|| Relative URL || `<a href="http://msn.com/en/about.html" rel="get help.html div1">` || http_:_//msn.com/en/help.html ||
|| Relative URL || `<a href="http://msn.com/en/about.html" rel="get /more.html div1">` || http_:_//msn.com/more.html ||
|| Relative URL || `<a href="http://msn.com/en/about.html" rel="get ?id=3 div1">` || http_:_//msn.com/en/about.html?id=3 ||
|| Relative URL || `<a href="http://msn.com/en/about.html" rel="get help.html?id=3 div1">` || http_:_//msn.com/en/help.html?id=3 ||
|| data URL || `<a href="http://msn.com/enabout.html" rel="get data:hello%20world div1">` || hello world ||
|| fragment identifier || `<a href="http://msn.com/en/about.html" rel="get #test div1"></a><div id="test">hello world</div>` || hello world ||

=== The div1 ID ===
This is an element on the page that should be updated when the server responds. It can be any element, but must be marked with an ID.

e.g.,

{{{
Your transaction was: <span id="div1"></span>
}}}
{{{
<table id="div1" border="0">
  <tr>
    <td>GOOG</td><td>567</td>
    <td>IBM</td><td>124.94</td>
    <td>MSFT</td><td>27.49</td>
  </tr>
</table>
}}}
{{{
<select id="div1">
  <option>Haiti</option>
  <option>Honduras</option>
  <option>Hong Kong</option>
  <option>Hungary</option>
<select>
}}}

=== The loading ID ===