#summary This tutorial teaches you how to use SimpleAjax on your website in a quick and simple way.
#labels Featured

=Using !SimpleAjax=

==Add !SimpleAjax to your Website==
First add the following script tag somewhere in your HTML.
{{{
<script src="http://simpleajax.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/simpleajax.js"></script>
}}}

==Customize the HTML of the Button or Link==
Then find the button or link which you want to respond to. The element can be any form element (e.g., textfield, button, selectbox, checkbox, etc.) or it can be a hyperlink. Then add a `"rel"` attribute to it.
{{{
<button rel="get getquote.cgi msg"></button>
or
<input type="password" rel="post checksecure.cgi pwd_msg"><span id="pwd_msg"></span>
or
<a href="moreinfo.html" rel="get more">More info...</a><div id="more"></div>
}}}

===Parameters===
The `rel` attribute value is a space delimited set of parameters, and it can contain anywhere from 2 parameters to 4 parameters:
|| *Parameter 1* || *Parameter 2* || *Parameter 3* || *Parameter 4* ||
|| Method || Element ID for response || || ||
|| Method || URL || Element ID for response || ||
|| Method || URL || Element ID for response || Element ID of a progress indicator ||

The parameters have the following meaning:
|| *Parameter* || *Meaning* || *Example * ||
|| Method || The HTTP method that will be used to send the data. || get, get-nocache, post ||
|| URL || Where the data should be sent to. || checkid?usr=3&auto=yes ||
|| Element ID for response || The ID of an element on the page that the server response should be put into. || header1 ||
|| Element ID of progress bar || The ID of an element that is also a progress indicator. When a server request is sent, this progress indicator is shown. When the server provides a response, the progress indicator is hidden. || waiting1 ||

==Make a Place for the Server Response==
When the server responds it will return a snippet of HTML. Find a place on the website where the HTML should be placed. It can be a div element, a table cell, or even another form element. Give that element an ID and make sure that that ID is also in the previously mentioned `rel` attribute.
{{{
Your security level is: <span id="sec_level"></span>
}}}

==Add a Progress Indicator==
Since the Internet is slow because of the tubes, it would be nice to have a progress indicator to tell the user that their request is being processed. You can specify the progress indicator element by passing its ID as the fourth parameter of the `rel` attribute.
{{{
<a href="#" rel="get-nocache checkmail.pl mail_count loading">Check Mail</a>
<span id="loading">Checking for new mail...</span>
}}}
When the above link is clicked, SimpleAjax will show the `"loading"` element, then call `checkmail.pl`, then when the server responds, it will hide the `"loading"` element and then place the response into the `"mail_count"` element.